# Cowper-like exchanger


This model represents a Cowper-like regenerative heat exchanger, where the hot and cold fluids alternate in a single channel during charging and discharging cycles, respectively. It is actually represented by 1/6th of the actual honeycomb structure.

About the conception:

- As the geometry is generated with `gmsh`, one needs to take care to keep the cyclic boundaries conformal, otherwise `cyclicAMI` conditions may be required and are currently not included in the present model.

- The multi-region geometry generated by `gmsh` needs to have all bodies and surfaces named as physical groups; the only exception being the coupled surfaces, which are not named and identified by their topology.

- It must be emphazised that surfaces and volumes cannot share a tag number, *i.e.* if a volume is indexed as `1`, there should be no surface `1` in the model, otherwise the conversion with `gmshToFoam` will fail to keep names.

- Mesh must dumped to file in format MSH 2.2.

- Original model was adapted from [multiRegion/CHT/heatedDuct](https://github.com/OpenFOAM/OpenFOAM-13/tree/master/tutorials/multiRegion/CHT/heatedDuct) as it was probably the closest match to our goals here.

- Additional elements were eventually based on other [CHT tutorials](https://github.com/OpenFOAM/OpenFOAM-13/tree/master/tutorials/multiRegion/CHT), what includes material properties and base setup of turbulence.

- After conversion, the mesh is renumbered with `renumberMesh` for fixing face orientation (to be verified). Finally, mesh is split into regions with `splitMeshRegions` utility, and the original `constant/polyMesh` directory is removed to avoid confusion.


Boundary conditions:

- Convective losses [externalTemperature](https://cpp.openfoam.org/v13/classFoam_1_1externalTemperatureFvPatchScalarField.html) applied to the extremities of solid body.

- Pairing the pressure and bouyancy conditions might be tricky; the `heatExchanger` and `heatDuct` cases use calculated pressure over all patches and fixed flux pressure for all but the outlet (fixed) `p_rgh` values. This approach seems reasonable for the present case.

- Notice that `heatExchanger` uses ideal gas air, thus an absolute pressure is provided in `p` internal field; a file `pRef` has been added to the constants dictionary (needs to be verified); for the `heatDuct`, the apparently incompressible approach by using zero pressure comes from the use of water as working fluid.

- Check the possibility of using `prghTotalPressure`, as it would make the intent clearer; see example in the `wallBoiling` case.

- Finally it was concluded that a `zeroGradient` should be applied at outlet pressure, otherwise flow reverses due to incompatible forces.

- For turbulence, the inlet value of `k` has been set through a small value of [turbulenceIntensity](https://cpp.openfoam.org/v13/classFoam_1_1turbulentIntensityKineticEnergyInletFvPatchScalarField.html), as low Reynold's number dominate the problem; for `omega`, a [turbulentMixingLengthFrequencyInlet](https://cpp.openfoam.org/v13/classFoam_1_1turbulentMixingLengthFrequencyFvScalarFieldSource.html) has been applied (manually change the length scale to ~7% the diameter, if geometry is modified), and walls are treated with [omegaWallFunction](https://cpp.openfoam.org/v13/classFoam_1_1omegaWallFunctionFvPatchScalarField.html) to avoid fine resolution of y+.
